---
slug: ulfric-is-a-bad-boy
title: Ulfric is a bad man, and Skyrim doesn't make that interesting
author: Alexander Aldridge
author_title: Mad Man
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11451815?s=60&v=4
tags: [skyrim, video games]
---

I recently replayed Skyrim for the first time since I was 2014. I vividly remember battling for the rebellion, fighting the evil Empire, and having a grand old time. I don't remember all the racism.

# First some context
*The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim* is a first person fantasy roleplaying game from *Bethesda Softworks* intially released in 2011. Being the fith game in the series, there's certainly an abundance of history and context to the game and the series as a whole. I have not played any previous games in the *Elder Scrolls* series, but I plan on playing the third (Morrowind) and fourth (Oblivion) games soon.

# Stormcloaks vs The Empire
200 years have passed since the events of Oblivion, and Bethesda's writers added some substantial historical events. The sudo-roman Empire (Imperials) went to war with the Third Aldmeri Dominion. The war started with a list of demands including the outlaw of the worship of the Nord god Talos, and ended with a peace treaty agreeing to nearly all those demands. Because of this, years later Ulfric Stormcloak kills the high king of Skyrim, and thus a civil war begins.

# The Game Mechanics
The game consists of speaking to NPCs, delving into dungeons while fighting baddies, looking said dungeons, and repeating. This gameplay loop is very fun, if a little plain. Nearly every dungeon has a linear path, and very few quests have choices within. **The player is not asked to roleplay and solve the world's problems, but is instead to minelessly do given tasks in order on a checklist.** The player is presented with checklists of tasks to complete, which all fall into four broad catigories: 1) fight something, 2) take something, or 3) talk to someone. Fighting and taking more often than not are done in one of the game's hundreds of dungeons, and talking takes place in one of the few dozen town-like locations.

Let's consider the first quest of the game: *Unbound*. The player is presented with a list of objectives that increase as objectives are completed:
- Make your way to the keep
- Enter the Keep with Hadvar or Ralof
- Escape Helgen
- Find some equipment (Hadvar)
- Loot Gunjar's body (Ralof)
- Search the barrel for potions (optional)
- Attempt to pick the lock of the cage (optional)

Note that this quest does contain some choices. The most impactful is whether to follow Hadvar or Ralof. When escaping a dragon attack, the player is "presented" the choice to follow either of these men, but ultimately they both take nearly the same path.

You start bound and nearly executed for unnamed crimes alongside Stormcloak soldiers and Ulfric himself. When a dragon attacks, Ralof (a stormcload rebel) helps you escape. Then after a rooftop jump, Hadvar (the man moments earlier helping execute you), helps lead you to saftey. These two parties meet up, and after a few lines of dialogue you can follow whichever you want.

The issue here should be obvious. The player should naturally side with the rebels, since the imperials want the player dead. There's no good reason for the player to side with the imperials. This is exasturbated by the path leading to the imperials being significantly further away than the Stormcloak's path.

